**

**

**

**

**

_": 

ic PA 5 ee = , j 4 \ Wy fat y, \ A dl . Pee Will, oe ey: “Ly 4 A = KC’ ary, —— < f HL : AN Y. ~ YOU SHOULD HAVE ae . e we Bs «DIE, AANAKALLITQ! an J Se / AS ae pis fg A = ‘ NEVER COME BACK!>> } is AN a= Sa \ \ eurFY PE PRIB\ NOI STAY BACK» , ¥ / » BS = y “ is > (Zz 4 4 he ’ ¥ wae | aa wee SS = i. i or J eet % Dy} Ns A “ef — es r , ~~ bes AC? |) =%4 ‘Ss Ny WT fy My \ SO. ae - . a» _ ae ~ ~ | \ < RgEe ere naire =< LO> A & s i PAN », i se ee ae “yy “eo ; [ ~ 3 SE \OR HE WILL RETURN ELSEWHERE)» A A\y ler Ahe : ay(rf (7) <<QUICKLYITHE WORLD WE BENEA H THEMUS **T** PURSU **E** ARTH, INTO 

**

**

**

1 \Nenaico car A le By Bill Bridges fw | 

ee 7 Credits Special Thanks Author: Bill Bridges Justin “El Caliente” Achilli, for drinking the fire instead Developer: Ethan Skemp of... well, you know, using his superpower. Editor: Ed Hall Andrew “Quanta-Serum” Bates, for revealing that there’s Art Director: Aileen E. Miles a little World War II supervillain in all of us. A Art: Pia Guerra, Patrick Kochakji, Jeff Rebner Pauline “Flirting With Disaster” Benney, for calling the Comic Book./Art: Ron Spencer Black Knight of Masked Death “cute. Layout; & Typesetting: Pauline Benney Chad “Smash Button!” Brown, for his liberated views on Back a the care and feeding of Darkstalkers. Cover Art: Joshua Gabriel Timbrook , sin : i. Cover Design: Aileen E. Miles Rob “The Honeymoon’s Over” Hatch, for calling it quits ' « ae *i i a and freeing up his Mondays and Thursdays. 8 a Jess “Running Monkey” Heinig, for being fool enough to enter the Hell of Redlining Manuscripts. Chris “Celine Dion Soundtrack” McDonough, for having ames Cameron’s baby.y In spirit,P of course. Rich “Bone Daddy” Thomas, for bringing another little wolf cub into the fold. 

Mike “Release the Hounds” Tinney, for scoring the first official Digimon™ kill. 

Fred “Clumpy” Yelk, for soiling his sand. 

**

© 1998 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction without the written permission of . the publisher is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade and Mage the Ascension are registered trademarks of White Wolf PublishAuthor's (Dedication ing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, ; : ae r Werewolf the Wild West, Axis Mundi the Book of For Bakk’a hulonee (“Many Tracks”), with thanks. For Spirits and Wendigo Tribebook are trademarks ofWhite Jane, with love. For all my relations. Wolfters, names,Publishing,placesInc. andAlltextrightshereinreserved.are copyrightedAll charac-by Mea Culpa!| White Wolf Publishing, Inc. Aiee! Not one, but two books with flagrant failures to The mention of or reference to any company or credit those who worked on them! Many thanks to E. product in these pages is not a challenge to the tradeJonathan Bennett and Matthew Lippay for their editomark or copyright concerned. rial assistance on Uktena Tribebook; sorry we left you This book uses the supernatural for settings, characout of the credits, guys. ters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements Andanother quick plea for forgivenessJ to Phil Brucato are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes for omitting his name in Werewolf Players Guide, only. Reader discretion is advised. Second Edition — the big cats just wouldn’t have been Check out White Wolf online at the same without your hard work, Phil, and I hope you're http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolfand glad as I am to see some of their toys printed there at PRINTED IN USA Again, most abject apologies. Ir’ll never — eeeever — Ve rec.games.frp.storyteller nike happen again. 10 Wendigo YinSs 

} a 4 Cc’ ANI‘Ee€- B00 XK 

Introduction: The Lodge of the Winds 12 Chapter One: Kallegneq (Drtimibeats), 14 Chapter Two: Peta-owihankeshni (Fire of Yo G0) «30 The culture ofthe Wendiggf ig % sat an 7bias i F Chapter Three: Katashad PlacelJhere theVision Dwells) 40 The Wendigo in the Pure a nds and beyon id Bs af Appendix One: Orenda (Power) wate 46 New Gifts, rites, fetishes and totems] ‘ iy —_— Appendix Two: Needjee (Friend) 53 Five ready-to-play character templates 7 4 Appendix Three: MitaKuye Oyasin (All My Relations) 64 L Tribal heroes of the Wendigo 

**

**

You who sit in the east, you who sit in the north, you who sit in the west, and you who sit at the end of the road, | greet you all. It is good. — Ceremony of Those Who Have Received Blessings from the Night Spirits (Winnebago) 

The wind was fierce and biting cold. Snow blew heavy —_ He could now see that the other three people were elders, each of across the sky, blinding Taken-From-Fire as he made his way _ them strong with orenda, with Power, for strength and vigor was over the hills. He was cold and tired, his wounds still bleeding, __ im their limbs and faces. To the east was an old, tall woman with refusing to close. The Stone Giant'sfists had the poison power an ugly face yet wise eyes. She reached into a bag and offered of the Wyrm, and its blows had crushed Taken-From-Fire’s | Taken-From-Firedried meat, which the Garou accepted hungrily. ribs; they would not heal quickly. To the north was a large and broad old man, fat but with “I must find shelter soon,” he thought, “or I will diehere.” a kind face. To the west was a thin but muscled young man, It seemed thatas soonashe thoughtit, he sawalightahead, with a well-formed face and eyes that seemed to contain like a fire seen from afar. He stumbled on and came to a lodge, lightning. a mighty building of rough-hewn wood. Inside, he could see “Welcome, Taken-from-Fire,” the big one said. “Welcome four people sitting on benches around a fire. One of them, a __ to our lodge. Will you stay for a while and hear our stories?” beautiful maiden, looked at him. “Yes, I shall,” Taken-From-Fire said. “But how did you “Come inside, noble Garou,” she spoke as she stood, | know my name?” 

“Come inside, noble Garou,” she spoke as she stood, beckoning him. “You are among friends, Taken-From-Fire entered the lodge and was immediately warmed. The winds did not penetrate the walls andseemednot to pass the open door. He walked near to the fire and sat at an empty spot on the bench, next to the maiden. “Thank you,” he said. “I am grateful.” 

The wiry one to the west smiled. “You are a renowned —— wolf-changer, of the Wendigo-People, as are we. We honor you here.” “And now you must eat,” said the maiden to the south. “And while you do so, we will tell our stories. We will sing of the Wendigo-People and their deeds in the world...” 

The Lodge of the Winds i ain 

13 

**

**

**

> * = » - ‘ r 2 f - 1 j (e - * tae : oni: ie 5 a a a : : po i D pebegts) so: 

You who are our grandmother, Earth, you blessed grandfather Jobenangiwingkha with life and war powers. As far as you extend, that far, O grandmother, do we spread out for you tobacco and food and moccasins. Here is the tobacco. Here in the fire shall I place the tobacco; and food and offerings of buckskin will we send to you at all times. You will always accept them, grandfather said, so that our clansmen may travel in a straight path of war and life. 

This we ask, Grandmother Moon, of you also. You added your power to the other blessings of grandfather Jobenangiwingkha and you said thatas longas the world lasts you would willingly accept the offerings of tobacco that his posterity extended to you. Thus you yourself said, we are told. Here is the tobacco. — Tobacco Offering to the Spirits (Winnebago) 

Taken-From-Fire ate the good, dried meat and felt well. His _ puffs on the pipe. He turned to the east and gave thanks. He turned wounds closed and life went fully into him again. Ashe ate, the old to the south and gave thanks, and then west, north, above and woman took sage from her bag and began to burn it. Its aroma filled below. He spoke as he did so: the lodge, and its smoke moved to every corner, above and below. “Mitakuye oyasin! All my relations! I greet you spirits of all The place was cleansed by that smoke, and no evil spirits couldstay, directions, Wendigo of wind above and Grandmother Earth below, although none were there. whose earth we stand on. I give you this tobacco. I give you our The big elder took a pipe from his bag, and then.a pipe bowl, thanks and honor you. I am your child, Ya-o-gah.” made from fine, gray pipestone. He passed it through the sage and He handed the pipe to the elder in the east, who repeated the offered it above, and he attached it to the pipe handle. He then took —_ chant and revealed her name to be O-yan-do-ne. In sucha way from his pouch a pinch of tobacco and carefully placeditin thebowl. did Taken-From-Fire learn all their names, for each in turn took our thanks.” He took a twig from the floor and put its end into the —_and the wiry man was Da-jo-ji. When they finished, they gave the “iy “We must first offer tobacco to the spirits,” he said. “To give the pipe and said the chant ofthanks. The maiden was Ne-o-ga, fire. Once it was aflame, he used it to light the tobacco with strong _ pipe to Taken-From-Fire, who did as they had done. Kallegneq 15 

a AA” They sat down agam, and Ya-o-gah put away the pipe. “It is Her favorite grandchildren were those of Sky Woman, done. Nowwe must tellof our beginnings, for thestormgrowsfierce Her daughter who had married a wolf-person. These children outside, and Jipijka'm, the Horned Serpent Person, will try to sing _[were][ wolf-changers,][ and][there][ were][ three][ of][ them;][they][ were] his song to it. Ours must be first, and stronger, for the fate of our called Older Brother, Middle Brother and Little Brother. Grandmother's world depends upon us." These brothers loved one another very much, and they Taken-From-Fire wrinkled his brow in confusion. “I don’t _ were rarely apart; they went everywhere together. EventuA understand. What do you mean? How does the storm matter?” ally, the time came when they had to take wives and live in “It is nota storm of wind and ice alone,” O-yan-do-ne of the separate homes. Older Brother chose a human for a wife east said. “The Wyld is in it, and it can make and unmake things. and lived near the water. Middle Brother also chose a It is now that we must sing the old songs, to maintain the worldas human and lived on the plains, close to the land. Little Grandmother meant it to be. But our Enemy, the Horned Serpent Brother chose a wolf to marry and lived in the forests. They —he who the other wolf-changer tribes call the Wyrm—alsosings, | came often to see one another. as do his children, and they will try to unmake the world with this Now, these brothers had wolf-changer cousins, whose storm. He will try to unmake the Wendigo-People, his fiercest children grew into many tribes. But these others did not enemies. We cannot allow that to happen. We must sing strongly, know the proper ways to live in the world, and they always and speak of all our ancestors, from our very beginning to our —_wanted to take from it without giving back. They were also children to come. Otherwise, they will cease to be.” afraid of their own Kin, the humans, for the humans’ ways “Wheream|?” Taken-From-Fire said. “IfthatisaWyldstorm, were strange. Instead of teaching them properly, the other I must be in the Umbra! What kind of lodge is this?” wolf-changers chose to scare them, to force them to act as “Itis the Lodge of theWinds,” Ne-o-ga of the south said. “But they should. This behavior only made the humans stranger. we must begin our songs, before it is too late to sing them.” At this time, there was a land without wolf-changers. “Yes,” Ya-o-gah said. “I will begin, for 1am the oldest, and When it was made, it was safe from evil and did not need know these things from long ago...” wolves to defend it. But the Horned Serpent came here and , Song[of][Creation] saw.birthedite grandchildren, Grandmother many children criedthe whowolf-changers, many destroyed tears andto beggedwhattravel beauty Herto this favor-theyfar “N'gah auttissookae. 1 call on you muses to inspire me. land and protect it from evil. | invite you on our journey,” Ya-o-gah said. “Our People are Manyofthe wolf-changers did not listen. They did not many, and many are their stories. These are the onesI know, — want to leave their homes, even for their Grandmother, the ones given to the wolf-changers.” who had given them the earth they lived on. But the three Muzzu-Kummik-Quae, Grandmother Earth, also called brothers heeded their Grandmother, and they gathered Unchi or Gaia, wanted to make a place for Her children and their people and followed Grandmother's signs to the far all the other land beings tolive upon. Sheaskedtheanimals _ land. And so, the brothers left their cousins and did not see to help Her gather soil. Only Muskrat succeeded in finding them again for many lifetimes. ; soil;Waters andfor this carryhe hadit backto go indeep his mouth.to the Hebottom couldof only the bringGreat The Long Journey a small mouthful, but such is Grandmother Earth's power On a wondrous sheet of ice that She took this handful and made the world with ic. Alll crossed the frozen sea First, Beaver volunteered to carry the earth on his ‘Ke boar tileve die back, but it was too heavy for him. Then, Turtle said that N f th he could doit. So the earth was put on his back. As the earth paige Sl uaigog grew, so did Turtle. Grandmother bid all Her children to Ten times a thousand, live on the earth and be happy. They crossed; Among the beings She created, Grandmother had All went forth in a night many beautiful human daughters. All the animal people — Wallum Olum (The Red Record) wanted to court them, and some of them married. They are Ya-o-gah sat back and closed his eyes. There was silence for the parents of the changing people, those who are both _ atime, with only the breath of the wind outside to be heard. Then animal and human, like the wolf-changers. he spoke again:[marry][animal][people,][saying][it][was][ more][ proper][that][—][Horned][ Serpent'sallies.][They][knew][ thatifthe][ brothers’][ people] dren But[to] Grandmother would not allow all Her human chilIt was a hard journey, for the way was blocked by the L they marry otherhumans. From these childrencomethemany came to this land, the Horned Serpent's creatures would soon humans of different colors. There are too many of them. be driven from it. They did not want this, and so they sent their Sometimes, Grandmother was tricked, like the time warriors against the brothers and attacked their people. Kwakwadjec wooed Her daughter. Grandmother believed he But the brothers were mighty. Older Brother knew wasa fine man, one whowas immune orinvulnerabletomagic, | much about the manitous and the secret Powers of the Six iy andout who so She he let really Herdaughter was— Shemarry had been him. trickedOnly laterdidShefind by Wolverine! _= people,Worlds. andMiddle he couldBrotherfell another’swas wise anddesiresunderstood even whenotherthey LeET Wendigoee 

**

## ii. nein. 

**

A 

**

**

it took many wolf-changers to chase him down. Only with __ her belly. One said that he would do great things in the magic weapons could he be killed, for clawsslipped offhishide. world for Grandmother Earth, and he asked the other what There were the Stone Giants — the Stone Coats — __ he intended. The other said that he, too, would do great beings who once followed Grandmother but wandered __ things, but they would be of his own doing. It was time for away and became cannibals. They roll inthesandandmake — them to enter the world. The first one came forth properly. their skin rock hard, One of them, Ga-nus-quah, returned The other, however, came forth from his mother’s armpit, | A to Grandmother and still lives; he teaches the wolf-changers _ thus killing his mother. It was as Spruce Woman had said. how to kill what others of his kind are left. The two grew very fast and could fend for themselves There was Nokos Oma, a twisted, bearlike creature within hours of entering the world. The older one mourned with long, sharp tusks, and Aziwugum, a black dog with _ for his mother, and tears ran down his face to freeze in his scales and a strong tail which could kill witha single blow. _ fur. “You look like your father,” Spruce Woman said. There was Palraujuk, the dragon, and the Kukilaluit, gro“Who is my father?” he asked. tesque beings with razor-sharp claws who would rend any“Great Wendigo, who lives in the far North.” one who found them. There wasalso Babbakwalanooksiwae, “Then I will go to him and ask for my power.” the hideous cannibal spirit. Gnaske, the Crazy Buffalo, “Sol will call you Seeks-the-Wind,” Spruce Woman said. causedDouble-Face madnessthe and Witch, disease tricked among people; the people, one halfandofAnukite,her face Feeeester ched eeneeeher, ae“I eS otill viiseek was beautiful adiecthae waht 2 ae _ oe he will give me his own power, so - The elements, too, could be corrupted by the Horned : pie .a 4 it : Serpent. % ae o! will call you Winter Heart,” Spruce Woman said, terrible cyclone Even thecreature, wind people could beor Cloud Swallower, evil, such who as caused Iya, a Mfee| hing.”ae : droughtiand finine: Soon, they were both grown and Seeks-the-Wind left All of these beings were bad and deserved to be slain. Ea fang Bie shee Wine Figart weneiwith hima. Tay Assiolt-changer who killed-cnie would ery ‘Riis! Kihei traveled far from their family lands, to places no one had daikek renee: “hae aan days, ia food ran low and Seeksstill keptAlthough pure by the land Grandmother's was marredwolf-changers. by evil’s passing,The it worst was ; Bceeoneg= erame eee ereato med Ieye SERINEhi things of the Horned Serpent could not last long here, and ae yen pee : it could not use guile in the Pure Lands, where such deceit Seeks-the-Wind went away to hunt but could find no was easily seen. In the land of the wasichu to the east, it &#™*° Ashe came back, the sun Ree down and opened the learned to hide deep in peoples’ hearts, and it did so in the flap a the sky fornight tocome. “Well?” Winter Heart said, Pure Lands also, but it could never go unseen for long, for Where's my meal? : the wolf-changers sniffed out such evil. “ found one today,” Seeks-the-Wind said. The Walt Cwi.ns over to“Some sleep. brother you are!” Winter Heart said and rolled There were the Da-ya-da-no, the twin brothers, Spirits of Seeks-the-Wind felt bad, believing that he had let Good and Evil. Foreknowing their powers, eachclaimeddomindown his brother. He did not see his brother as others did ion, and a struggle between them began..... or as the scoundrel Winter Heart was, for Seeks-the-Wind = ‘Harrier Maxwell Conversenh isend Levends ofthe loved him. He resolved to do better the next day. New York State Iroquois But he found no game that day either, and he had to In these times, there was a wolf-changer woman of the Come back with bark and roots. Wendigo-People called Spruce Woman, and herdaughterhad “Yuck!” Winter Heart said. “You expect me to eat this?” not yet married. Spruce Woman worried, for she knew that “It is all I could find,” Seeks-the-Wind said. Grandmother wanted Her changing children to marry and “Oh, all right!” Winter Heart said, taking most of the have many youngones. Thisdaughtercamehomeonedayand _ roots from his brother. “But do better tomorrow!” she was with child. Spruce Woman was happy butalso curious, That night, as Winter Heart slept, Seeks-the-Wind got up for her daughter had brought no husband with her. and sat by the stream. He wonderedwhat he had done wrong, why “Who hasdone this to you,daughter?”Spruce Womanasked. _he could not find food. A voice spoke to him from the water: “] do not know,” the daughter replied. “I found a branch “You have not prayed properly! You cannot catch and swung from it. It felt so good, | did not want to stop.” what you do not ask for.” “Then it is the Wind who is the father of your children. Seeks-the-Wind looked into the stream and sawasalmon You will have twins. One will do good things and father _ floating there, resisting the pull of the waters. “How do |pray? many strong children who will be fierce warriors forGrand- _ cannot speak the language of the Animal Elders!” willmother. The other will be bad and cause much trouble. He “Ah, then] will teach it toyou. | will teach you Hanbloglaka, seek your death.” thelanguageof the spirits.To learnit, youmust And so it was that she gave birth to twins, two wolf—_-[you][ will][ gain the] wisdom[ you][seek.][ But][ you][ must][ promise][to][ treat] “iy eat me. In this way, changers. Before they were born, she heard themtalkingin _ all salmon well and help them to prosper.” Wendigo 

= ‘ ‘ft f = a9 - a ow i - = aA SNN N 7 =~,Poa:a — Degen.—_ Pa sr ~ th ~~) . us rn - Ls 2 \\)) ae A \wy \ \ NS on “ oo é - * a s f \ ~ Jo Ls ia? a b \ 4 . (, ’ . \ eC: 4) \ K { - C a N M7 . ._— et <p) QA SS \ . ‘ ree t ea — : NAD ’ i A “a ~ !Y/R ; OY PY | YESS?[°] \\\ é ar: yaad {VSOY In ' ' : S,' SAYS ; > S * : > .) . WNW: = _S eae ieCd| ‘ “It shall be done!” Seeks-the-Winds said. And the | how many times he struck, nothing happened. He cursed salmon, none other than Skaia, the Elder of the Salmon_and threw the antler far away, just as his brother woke up. firePeople, leaped onto the shore. Seeks-the-Wind prepareda “Oh!” Winter Heart said. “You’re back! I was just and skinned the fish and cooked its meat. protecting your body from the crows!” Winter Heart woke up sniffing, wondering at the good “Thank you, brother,” Seeks-the-Winds said. “It was the smell. “What's that? | smell fish! Give me some of that!” strangest thing. I traveled many moons journey without walkSeeks-the-Wind hesitated, unsure if his brother had —_ ing. I saw animal people from distant lands. One there, a done all that was proper to attain the meat. Buthe realized caribou called Tunturyuaryuk, said that he would hunt me, so that he had a duty to his brother, that he had to feed him. that could then huntall his children. Then he gored me over So he gave the larger share of the meat tohim. It mattered | andoverwithhisantlers, tearing me to pieces. But then he put little, for even a small bite was enough. Both the Wolf me back together with his mouth, saying, ‘You may now hunt Twins gained the power of Salmon, and then they knew the the caribou on your journey to the North. No antler of theirs language of the spirits. will harm you.’ And then | woke.” Then Seeks-the-Wind felt bad and could not move. “So that’s it,” Winter Heart said. “Well, we'd better keep He lay on the ground as if asleep, his mind traveling far moving.” away. He had the Ghost Sickness, the sleep that sometimes Seeks-the-Wind agreed, for the sun was rising in the east. come over shamans after their first spirit initiation. He was They set off again on their journey, but Winter Heart was not unaware of what happened to his body. happy, for his brother now had something which he did not. Winter Heart saw this and thought an evil thought. *] They went for many months, living off the caribou couldtake kill my brother now and return to the village to which Seeks-the-Windcould hunt but which Winter Heart | up his things. No one would know thatitwasI who could not catch, no matter how hard he cited: did him in. | would then have all the renown.” He cast I ; eee ; about for: a weapon to use but found: only an antler.He One night, while they slept wearing11. the skin of wolves dared not use his claws or teeth, in; case someone found in the open, they were; captured by strange people and the taken to a strange village. These beings were small: and body later. ji : Wich chic che , ia thin, with scrunched-up faces and sharp teeth. They wore unmoving brother and stabbed him MEO ERIES. But the They were the Nakani, evil spirits who abducted people. iy antler wouldith thisnot sharppenetrate antler, Winterhis brother's Hearthide. creptNo uponmatterhis parkas made from human skin and spears made from bone. Kallegneq 21 ian ve elitesee ee 

VA 

OOcom re SA SS ee LUti—<‘i‘iés Thosefrom few people who had escaped them had gone mad _day. You see, Narssuk was also knownas Bad Weather. He their captivity. was the son of giants. When his parents were killed, he The Wolf Twins were put into a pen, as if they were sought revenge by rising into the sky to become a storm. He animals, and the village prepared for a feast. “What can we __ is the cause of the worst weather in the North, but he can do?” Seeks-the-Wind wondered. “How can we escape?” be placated by good people. will listen“I will talkto me.” to them,” Winter Heart said. “Perhaps they NorthHeand tookthere Seeks-the-Windleft him, afraidto thehimselfhighestof peakwhat inwouldthe lA Winter Heart then took human form and called tothe happen ifhe had done wrong and brought an evil person to chief, who was surprised to see a human standing where Wendigo. Seeks-the-Wind saw no one and cried out, before he had put wolves. The chief came to the edge of | “Father? I am here!” their cage and smiled, knowing then that he had a wolfA great, grinding voice came from all directions, changer, a very tasty meal. Winter Heart spoke to him: “If carried by the six winds: “You claim to be my son? Then call you eat us, you will never know our secret.” The chief the winds to yourself!” frowned and poked at Winter Heart with a spear, but the Seeks-the-Wind thought for a moment, and then in wolf-changer dodged it. “I guess you don’t want to know. __ the speech of the spirits, he called to the winds blowing Well, eat us then.” The chief frowned again and beckoned —_aroundhim ro tell them that he was the son ofWendigo and his warriors. They opened the cage and called forth Winter _ a wolf-changer. In return for their answer to his call, he Heart. He shrugged and walked out. They closed the door _ said, he would honor them and provide tobacco when he behind him, locking in Seeks-the-Wind. returned home. Hearing this, that one of Grandmother's led The chief treated Winter Heart likean honored guest.He beings still remembered respect, the winds rushed to him the wolf-changer into his lodgeand there provided him _ and lifted him up to the very tip of the peak. with food. Winter Heart used his guile to learn the secrets of “Father!” he cried, “I have done as you asked!” Everythingthe Nakani power, which came from the Horned Serpent. Again, the great voice came fromall directions: “So, you made Winter Heart heard about this Horned Serpent think you are my son? Then bring me the heart of my greatest this him curious rather than afraid, and he resolved to meet enemy, he who has chosen the ways ofthe Horned Serpent.” being. He demanded that the Nakani take him to the “How will I find him?” Seeks-the-Wind cried out. Horned Serpent, to whom he would reveal his secret. They The winds gusted and carried Seeks-the-Wind from were excited and agreed. Immediately, they hitched theirsleds the cliff in a snow-storm of such fury that he could see and took Winter Heart across the ice to meet their master. nothing. When it calmed and left him on the earth, he saw in Seeks-the-Wind, forgotten by his brother, was alone _ dark cave and the sleds of the Nakani. But now they fled the village. The cage was made of unbreakable poles fom him, this powerful being who walked with the storm. shoved into the earth by giants. He could not dig deep Only one from the group still remained, one witk an evil enough or jump*high enough to escape. It looked as ifhe smile and fire in his eyes. would starve there. “So, brother,” Winter Heart said, “you escaped the my “T only regret that I could not meet my father and see cage and have come. Good, youcan also partake of the flesh grandmother again,” he said. I have eaten. Just as you have fed me, I shall now feed you.” the A freezing wind blew him down, knocking him into _He held out a flank of raw, dripping, awful-smelling meat. snow. Had he not eaten Skaia’s flesh and learned the “O, my brother!” Seeks-the-Wind cried out. “What Hanbloglaka, he would have thought it just the first breath ave you done? You have eaten the flesh of the Horned of a coming storm. But now he knew the words ofthe spirits Serpent. Now you share his power!” and heard the voice that accompanied the wind: “Yes!” Winter Heart said, “I am now more powerful you “Who are you?” it said. “| recognize your smell! How do than you. People will respect me before you.” come to smell like Great Wendigo? Explain yourself! “This cannot be,” Seeks-the-Wind said, “for Father him “Tam his son,” Seeks-the-Wind said, “I desire to find yas commanded me to bring him your heart.” but cannot, for | am trapped in this evil cage.” Winter Heart looked surprised for perhaps the first And“Trapped” the wind said. “By wood? Ha! It isnot so!” _ time in his life. Seeks-the-Wind took the form of battle and the wind blew like a hurricane, stronger than any wind fell upon his brother to claw and bite him. But his brother Seeks-the-Wind had experienced before. If he had not yow had unholy power and also took the battle shape. His . _ beenin his wolf form, he might have frozen there; asitwas, claws were poison, his bite venom. he was blown far from the cage, which splintered into many But Seeks-the-Wind was the older of the two, for he had pieces. He landed on a snow bank and looked up to see a been the first to leave his mother, and was the stronger. He large boy in the air above him. killed his brother “Tam and fell to the ground, dying himself from the father. Narssuk, Storm Boy. I will take you to your poison. But he could not give up yet. He tore out his brother's “I But first you must learn to run with the wind.” heart and saw that it had become a black, smelly thing. Narssuk taught Seeks-the-Wind the trick of Sky-Run_hisfather, whoreceived the organ ofhis otherson and dropped VA have heard of you, Narssuk, and I thank you.” The winds reached out and bore Seeks-the-Wind back to ning, a Gift which the Wendigo-People still know to this _jtintohismouth. Ashedidso, the poison left Seeks-the-W ind, for 22 Wendigo 

all of Winter Heart’s power was cleansed by the ice within It was the custom ofthe wolf-changer tribes back then Wendigo, and all his evil was done with for good. to exchange their cubs for fostering. Little Fox was of the “Youare indeed myson,” Wendigosaid.He taught hisson Wendigo-People in the North. He was sent to learn the many things and gave him rules forall the Wendigo-People to ways of the wolf-changers under the care of Wanchese, a follow. When Seeks-the-Wind came back to his village, he mighty Croatan warrior. So did Little Brother learn from was much changed. Power walked with him, andalwaysachill Middle Brother. It was the Way. \ A wind was near. He had many kind words for his grandmother It was in this time that wasichu came to the Croatan’s and others ofthe village, but when they were notatceremony lands. Wanchese saw their ships off the coast and knew that or celebrating, his aspect was grim, for he had killed hisown — trouble had come with them. This was not the first he had twin, and a piece of his heart was now ice like his father’s. seen of the wasichu. His people knew them from the South, O-yan-do-ne was silent, andall the eldersnodded, contemwhere the Spanish came to stay and enslaved so many ofthe plating what was said. The old woman spoke again: natives he called Kin. Wanchese knew how dangerous they It is from Seeks-the-Wind that the Wendigo-People get WET® with Mad Spider powers and Horned Serpent sicktheir power; there are many more tales of this great wolfSS. His tribe called a moot to discuss the new visitors to changer and the deeds he did for his children and all of the land,as the visitors met and parleyed with the Croatan's Grandmother's beings. People often wonder: “What auspice Kinfolk. was he? Was he a Theurge? Did he not speak to spiritsas they The holy ones had seen omens, although they were do? Or was he a Philodox? Was he not our first chief? Perhaps strange and confusing: signs of great evil but also of great an Ahroun, for he was mighty.” The truth is that he was all good, of new friends and allies against the monsters. But these things, for he lived before Han-hepi-wi, the Moon, gave _ also of new monsters, worse than ever before. the Ways and Roles to the wolf-changers. Indeed, one story It was decided that these visitors would be treated well, tells of how Seeks-the-Wind sought her out and asked herto —_— in the hopes that their secrets would be revealed. Wanchese give us these Ways. Honor him and you honor your past. was to go among them, to befriend them and win their trust. O-yan-do-ne was silent again. The wasichu made barter with the natives. In those Ya-o-gah spoke: “We have said enough about the Old days, the Pure Ones were wise and knew well the ways of Times. It is time to speak of the worst times, the times from the Grandmother. The wolf-changers did not rule over them; coming of the wasichu. Da-jo-ji will speak...” they made their own decisions, unless they endangered VYiow It Can Be Told: otherin Grandmother'speople. But the grace. Pure TheyOnes trusted had perhaps too well lived the promises too long Croatan of friendship given them by the Wyrm-tainted men from Song acrossbrother theof sea.the Inthenative **s** pirit’ chieo **f** friendship,tain, promisedGranganimeto send **o** ,ne theof The earth is part of my body, and never gave up the earth. _his tribe back with the newcomers so that he might see the __ Tachulhhulsore lands across the sea. The chosen one’s name was Manteo. These lands are ours. No one has a right to remove us, When Wanchese heard this news, he feared for his because we were the first owners. cousin Manteo and said he, too, would go to the land across . Tecumselite Wells. 1807 the sea. Manteo was glad to have his cousin as traveling Middle Brother is gone. All know this. But few know companion. But Manteo, and even Granganimeo, did not the tale of: the Croatan’sie : end, of their great sacrifice.re Older know that Wanchese. was of the wolf-changers’ blood. . Brother shuns the song, keeping it in the hands of only a It was with heavy heart and eeret that Wanchese lett, few, as if it were a secret no one must know. In such a way but he wentalso with the many blessings of his tribe. He was does he deny his grief. Even some among the Wendigoespecially sad, however, to leave his charge, Little Fox, who People have forgotten the tale, for their sorrow worsened in howled his goodbye from the woods as the ships left. the years afterward, and it was too great a pain to carry with It was not an easy journey for a wolf-changer, so long them. They thought to spare the young their tears, and so accustomed to running wild and free. There was nowhere ceased telling the tale. to run on the ship. The Croatan were tied to the earth. But this wayis wrong, and it denies the honor due They needed land. But Wanchese was Now surrounded by Middle Brother. Many lessons did they teach by their Water everywhere. It was one thing to take a fishing trip in deaths, all unlearned by too many. Listen now to this 9 C@M0& — but for days on end? No wonder these humans lesson, which we return to your people so that you may tell *° easily came to follow the Horned Serpent's ways. it to your grandchildren’s children. Grandmother gives us much strength, but not even This is the Song of the Croatan. The Song of Wanchese, Wanchese could withstand the coming and goingof the sea greatest oftheir warriors.Thisishisdeathsong, and thatofhistribe. for long. He took sick for days. His cousin, Manteo, learned Londead a9statin‘ ake‘t Me SOFeaetelek Recondi manv-tiniedmi, fe h:acest thethey wasichu were strangewords words,well, and and taught Wanchese them hadto Wanchese. trouble under-But grandfathers, bythe ‘shores: ob the Seat » ee standing them. Finally, after many days, they arrived at the place now called the Outer Banks by the wasichu, there Zi 2 e ai lived some of the Croatan tribe. “yy ; . ‘ strangers’ home across the sea. Kallegneq 23 i nnaeniiimiomnmemmemens 

yA 

a 

They were introduced to the leaders of the wasichu Long they stayed into the night speaking of each other’s tribes, Sir Raleigh and the Queen. But Wanchese hated it. | Ways. They spoke in the wolf tongue when they did not All about was the work of Iktomi, the Mad Spider we also understand each other’s words, and so[discovered][that][it][ was][a] call the Weaver. The Wyld was hardly to be seen. But —_common language for them. Wanchese was pleased to find everywhere, hidden yet overpowering in stench, was the _ that not all the wolf-changers of England were as bad as the Horned Serpent— the Wyrm. It maddened Wancheseand _ Silver Fangs he had met. But he knew there was a dark cloud made him feel trapped. He had to get out, tohuntdownthe _ over the land. Wythers begged him to tell stories of his home Wyrm and confront it. and people, and this Wanchese was very glad to do. So he left his hosts and went out to see their village, to Wanchese and Manteo stayed the winter in England. see their people. He was even more appalled. They livedin Manteo thrilled the English with tales of his home. Soon, filth. They never bathed. And they cursed at each other, many wanted to live there. In early spring, the English sent and killed one another for coins. Wanchese had enough. to the Pure Lands many ships bearing many colonists. Were there no wolf-changers here to defend these people? | Wanchese seethed with inner anger. But he could do Notrackheroes to protect them from the Wyrm? He swore to _ nothing, for he was alone. His new wolf-changer friends— down the Enemy and fight it himself. who called themselves Garou — could not stop the ships, But the native wolf-changers did not like this. Two of for other powers wanted the vessels to go. the Silver Fangs tribe attacked him in the street. Although But finally Wanchese came home! He prayed to the they dressed in fine clothing and looked like great chief_spirits to forgive him, for he was sorry to bring with him so beattains of their people, they treated Wanchese badly. They — many enemies. Wanchese had thought and thought,but no him with silver — a metal he had never seen before, plan had come to him on how to stop the colonists. He for he knew not the dangerous side of the Moon and the _ knew what he had to do, as he stood on his home soil again metal she had made to tame the wolf-changers. for the first time in many moons. He would have to quest They warned him against entering their territory within the Ghost World for the answer. out giving proper respect and left him to bleed. It was then Journey for (Deliverance that one of the Bone Gnawers came forth from hiding and aided Wanchese, binding his wounds and apologizing for Wanchese met with Little Fox, grown bigger in the his lords’ behavior. His name was William Wythers,andhe S€@S0ns Wanchese had been gone. Little Fox begged to had more virtue than all his lords together. come with him on his quest, and Wanchese accepted, proud that the young Wendigo was so brave. 

**

**

**

; As we have learned in the past, we must not all go —_ in the Ghost World to ask forgiveness and to give an to fight the Horned Serpent as one, for if all die, then —_ offering. He who refuses such a task loses Renown, for he there is no one to defend the young or the caerns. Too _ brings bad luck to all his people until his wrong has been many times have entire septs been wiped out on foolish _ righted. ; war hunts which leave the sacred sites prey to WyrmBut it isnot just matters taint. engages in; they also foresee theof appeasement future in the Jeesekum,that the Lodgth **e** A War Chiefs must always be aware of such risksandchoose Shaking Tent ceremony. Ina tent erected for the purpose F their war parties wisely. Cubs not yet ready for the task must —_ of the rite, they call upon their spirit advisors and ask Uy not be allowed to fight; they must stay behind to defend the —_ questions of them. caern. Their time will come someday; patience for now. While the spirits confer among themselves, their sounds Those of High: Renown thatshake it the may whole collapse.tent, Onceso that those their answers outside are become given, thefearful tent When no hunt or war is at hand, and all is well, many calms and the Theurges emerge to tell us what will be. Wendigo still hunger to gain glory and to kill their enemies. When the wait becomes too great, a Wendigo often deCamps clares a quest or journey for some great deed and invites ’ saat : others to come with him — those who are brave enough. Just as Ons human Kin have a lagi their These ese deeddee chavy nat clnevsy hedertone: arGoaw could he tribes — warrior societies, police societies and more — so L to search for a treasured fetish or to gain; a secret from a do the Wendigo-People: have manyFess icamps. Whileathese spirit. Whatever the object of the quest, it is usually led by S°°UP® encodes iBtetraperpietaionsae series th the one who called :it, who declared hisrmintent before our lineage, for we all come from Grandmother Earth. others. However, those of higher renown do not always he Warpath volunteer to follow one of lesser renown; only if the quest seems worthwhile does this happen. More often, those of On the warpath I give place to none; high renown gather the lesser-hailed Wendigo and lead with great unyielding courage I give my life. them on journeys or ceremonies. — Lodgemaker’s first-day chant at Sun Dance Such missions, while often declaredin haste or amid rage, do Perhaps the strongest camp among our people, the not always depart immediately. The wiser onesspenddaysoreven Warpath seeks only revenge. They say otherwise, but their weeksin preparation, usingthe time to gatherfood, tobuildcanoes hearts are turned to vengeance, to tepay their sufferings or weapons, and to pray to the manitous for guidance. with violence. Thank the spirits that they turn their rage Lodge[of][the][Mani] 5[tou] againstagainst theirthe own,Horned theSerpent, Wendigo-Peoplefor when suffer greatly,they do turn andit 7 Magic many die. Bring visions! Come, we urge you, come into us! Other wolf-changer tribes often insult the Warpath with you happiness! soldiers, and fights break out which can last for generations. Come, to us, great visions! Once war paint has been applied and an oath made, never — Chant from Pawnee Hako ceremony can a Warpath wolf-changer leave the trail of violence When great matters involve the manitous, then it is until his oath has been completed. 

When great matters involve the manitous, then it is until his oath has been completed. the duty ofa select group of shamans to guide us in such Without them, however, our people would be worse affairs. The Lodge of the Manitous meets under the cres- _ off, for the Horned Serpent monsters become many in cent moon to divine the path we must take. This group is = number, and they are hard to fight. But the Warpath also called the Lodge of Mysteries, because its Theurges _ soldiers are fierce, and even the Wyrm Beings quake to hear know many things which are kept secret from most people. _ their war howls. Perhaps someone among us has been selfish or mean; Indeed, when One Who Follows the Wyrm realizes then the spirits may withdraw their aid, calling back their — that the Warpath is on the hunt for him, he almost always childrenso we may nothuntthem. In someareastoday,this runs in fear, rather than fighting. In such a way are lost year. But those who live the right life, who often eat what Sel rs matters little, for we can buy food from wasichu stores all caerns rescued and our Kin protected. L is gifted to them from the land and the Animal Elders, know (Da-jo-ji 5peaks for the Warpath that to anger the spirits is to gain bad luck and lose the Yes, we are mighty, and the Horned Serpent People flee spirits’ support in trying times. at our howls. None can stand before a band of Warpath willwhatTheoftheLodge spirits, determinesbydiscovering how whybest theyto regain are angryandthe good _ soldiers—_is but —a delay. nothingThose can stopwho themcounsel from their task.peace before Evenus deathare must be done to appease them. The Lodge usually — cowards! Those who do not join us on the hunt will be known demands that the transgressor travel tothe spirit’shome —_as weaklings! Peta-owihankeshni 35 

**

yy 

**

One does not sell the earth upon which people walk. — Crazy Horse 

## Walking Grandmother's World 

## Ne-o-ga spoke: 

can find him. But we know he still lives, for if he did not, the Earth would sink into the Great Waters again. 

Where once there were Six Worlds, now there are only two: the Earth World, this world, your home, and the Ghost World, the place where the spirits dwell, which the other wolf-changer tribes call the Umbra, the Place of Shadows. Shadows. The other worlds are no more, except as ghosts in the Ghost World. Some of their beings still live there, but they seldom come to this world anymore. 

two: the Earth World, this world, your home, and the Ghost This is the world which Grandmother guided us to, World, the place where the spirits dwell, which the other —_ and this is the place She bid us dwell and protect till we are wolf-changer tribes call the Umbra, the Place of Shadows. Shadows. no more. Unlike the other tribes, we do not willingly leave The other worlds are no more, except as ghosts in the our tribal lands, the places where our ancestors lived and Ghost World. Some of their beings still live there, but they left their power. If we leave, there will be no one left to defend seldom come to this world anymore. them. We must stand firm and not move from this place. q he Earth World otherWe tribes. are The tied to very our seasons ancestralcall tolands us and more affect deeplyour than manner. the Inthe spring, it is hard to concentrateon work, for the new life This is the most important of all worlds, for it is where isall around, and we want to play as we did when we were cubs. Grandmother meant for us all to dwell between our soIn the summer, we are tired of playing and seek war. We journs in the Ghost World and the other worlds. Here is traditionally hunted the Horned Serpent People in the warm where the Animal Elders let their children run; those that _ season, for they hid during the winter. Our power — our Rage cannot run here anymore are kept in their pens in the — — jis strong here, and it is hard to counsel peace then. In the Ghost World, in the lodges of their Elders. fall, the world begins to slumber and withdraw, to prepare for This is the Earth World, the world that Turtle bears on the coming cold. It is hard for us to change skins during this his back. He made this sacrifice for all beings, so that they _ time. Then, in the winter, we are strongest. This is the time of since they went away, he has sleptand none of ourangalkut _to fell us with weapons and blows. would have a place to live. He was beloved by the Croatan; —_ our totem, of our power. We become hardy, and it is difficult 

**

4] 

**

| 

| 

Siberia Other Garou There is only one other place in the Earth World . r. ‘ where we have relations, and that is along the coast of the ae ties — ag ec a i at uke land called Siberia. Fishers and hunters closely related to ar haga = Ae -_" en alae ssiasiabicinin our human Kin in Alaska still live in this place, and some BROUE CHEM, DAD Wie oe 4 Beene 18s yo ofwatersthe Wendigo-Peopleand preventing Hornedlive withSerpentthem, protectingmonsters fromthe Black Furies5 a\rr.#14¥ 4A reaching the Pure Lands from this direction. We respect their might./But we do not respect their Some speak ofa tribe called the Siberakh, said to be related ways. They are unbalanced. to our ese people and the Silver Fangs.ial I know nothing of them. Bone Gnawers | _ The Ghost World They live in filth. Bat they aretobe trusted more than be The the others, for-eheyften Keep their word — unless it is spirit world is vast, and its ways are more mysteri—_dangerous to do so- But ever this we Understand. ous to us now than ever before. Many worlds which existed : : = on their own now live there as ghosts. The paths have €hildren of Gaia become confused and have changed. This is a good thing, er for the Horned Serpent walks there, but knows not where Ifall the Garou vs like prey WE could have lived in he goes, He'gets lost often. peace and harmony inthis land, for there is room for all if wolf-changers.Only Han-hepi-wi knows all the paths, lighting them for e4aea oth op liota ee elers, although the She Moon sometimes Feathers sendsdo her not alwayschildren take to aid us where trav- ads aed ame eerh J,eeDi * Leer we wish to go. However, it is usually where we need to go. Fianna 4 There are many special places here, sacred to our people. The most special is our Tribal Homeland, a pristine They think that everyone likes them. They are wrong. place of beauty, much like the Pure Lands were before the They refuse to see themselyes for what they are: fools and Horned Serpent ruined everything. murderers. thinkOtherit is bleaktribes andwho fearhave that theyseen could notit (They are survivevery livingfew!) Get of Fenris. ‘i here, for it is a land ofsnow and tundra and fierce winds. But We have fouglit tafiyiWars.with these ones, for they they do not see the purity in the snow, and they rarely _ respect no tribal bodindé iz desire our caerns. Respect venture far enough to see the forests and streams where the _ their might, ifonly to kax@¥wBest how to beat them. Burgive spirits of many animals live and wander. them noaid when theygi#k it. They would not give it to you. untaintedWe dohomeland. not allow themThe toWind-spirits go this far, for thisprotectis ourit final,for us, Glass Walkers savaging any strangers who dare to enter, unless they are in 7. Paw lite shou sHanpe maesjavhio seein to need.InThese we will aid,buteventhey cannot travel long here. be far sicrecepider ths B Their spirits are those of the villages, our ancestors sometimes come to dwell, spiders, always weaving."Stay away from them. traveling from the Path of Souls to teach us lessons. We nr bring them offerings, light fires and cook game for them. Red Calons the From this place, we can glimpse the Path of Souls in Th foolish. f bethar wcll World Above the Sky, the world that is called the b he mia pees ane F ce ier ti — Aetherial Realm by others. Someday, we too shall walk htop Bu metee Pe ee are hat oe that Path through the stars to new worlds that GiandDe SureBut all beings agp right to what Grandmother nicéiulle Mian Gade tow ss gave us. These ones are s€lfish. Even our wolves know this. i: Some donot always travel that path. Many get lost, orthe Shadow Lords spiritscommitted,deny suchthemasentrance Pauguk, whofor some killedcrimehis brothera wolf to get changer his They are perhaps theVsWorstt }those from over the sea. brother's wife. He now lives in the Land of the Dead, asdo Theyshare the wasicttis Valu@segfeed and selfishness. This many of our ancestors who were killed by the wasichu. Until _ tribe always takes frOmmGthers fathe than asking. For this vengeance is delivered for them, they cannot go on. reason, give them n0,aid and ne respect. them.For If manythey are reasons, killed we unjustly, must cherish they may our become Kin and restless protect Silent: Striders. spirits, refusing to walk the Path of Souls and instead pc confuse us. [he¥ ha ittle family and walk haunting us until we work revenge for them. They havea _alonefilltmis.one Thing@fopdWa anger Pwalk alone fora power now, one which even wesometimesfear.Butmorethan _seas@morrwo, Hiasbetnusedlway sretum,OHispedp e, hispack. anything else, we pity them and wish to end their suffering. But these 6 meal ve others to live WitheTtts Not healthy. adi CaaiaatiaaaiamiaeKatashaEe 43 

; / 

/ Z : 

a ee Silver Fangs nothing is expected in return. We owe them this for what spelt Sesceatone Have Se Like the Sha s#ithes@¥one¢s want to rule over all, regardless of whether ene They cli } ons make it so. But tte ' j followetheir t aditions **r** s. a £ ¢teeandimotherarned gave or attract us oth r **e** d QWyyyonca; Da-jo-ji smiled now, as ifhe spoke of something he greatly ways. Ignore them. ¥f they insult us/war on them. enjoyed: say that they are vain and too angry. | say ones who say Stargazers Many Wendigo-People fear the puma-changers and Oh all dcae face sie ata! saad olathe so are fools, for the puma-changers are mighty warriors. Thev sesaece supe wv Yes isan Tigevicks sh Without their aid, the mountains of the Pure Lands od ae eey ps. ' BPR the silk de taal would have been lost to the Horned Serpent People. beasts Geel k er ote “Wwe ill » B h When we first came, these evil beings fled to the mounBEE, m4 valth “a Mg 2 ts te mes pe mey tains to live in caves where we could not find them. But UCR TENY s SORA ng oe RES CEG the puma-changers found them. They had patience, and Uktena nes Olber rother forSerpent Person crawleddays they would wait, fromwatching the mountain.until Thena Hornedthey Older Brother has changed much. He is secretivenow — would pounce! where he used to be kind. He is too secretive. We fear he Mighty are the puma. Respect them well. hides power taken from the Hoffied Serpent with the hope, Ya-o-gah int & y are selfish, and perhaps, to use it for . Mhis is wrong. It will only they do not always 7 ey a ” harm him and others. wary of the Uktena tribe. it iiaealadd io a But they are ourdbsf@the -We cannot forsake ie ' —_ : them. When they ask our aid, We give it, no matter how much Qualmi we may dislike the cause. ually ask for aid in return, hopingknow the to old teach ways, thebut oftefpracticeUkténa the old waysother we ways follow. instead. They the Qualmi.The vin.Powértul angalkutwe th‘2:r lynx-people,they can see Like the Qualmi cats, too many of them become and hear well the moveme d voices of the manitous. sorcerers, using their power for selfish wants. Like the puma-people, they have the patience wale quietly for many days to capture an enemy or a manitou. If Other[Ch][an] ger5 theyit is leta manitou, it go. Beware they thesewill f **o** nes,rce knowl for th **e** dgey become from sorcit b **e** fore **r** es Painted desert, peyote rain and often use magic to curse us from afar. Lord, don’t let me go insane . Skinwalker, skinwalker Nuwisha Through your eyes I can see Ido not like t everything funny, but You have left your mark on me the coyote-change yway. They are not — Patrick Leonard and Robbie Robertson, “Skinwalker” always easy to find, b ere, hiding as somebody Ne-o-gx wis fiashed and esos Os Dea ee aoa else or pretending t m ey are not, all so they There are other Changing: Beings besides the wolfcan play pranks on sofmeone. ‘ie : changers. These skinwalkers are sometimes our alliesand Corax sometimes our enemies. Long ago, our ancestors fought them for land. In the Pure Lands, these struggles were little The raven-people | ends; bide often hunt todifferent than many of the wars fought by our human Kin, gether. In return for their lo rovide our might. Many of and no resentment would have come from them had itnot —_ themprefertohuntin the GRostWorld, but they often get lost been for the terrible wars our kind fought across the seas. there. Their place is in thig world, where the sun still shines. There, they killed many other changers, and now all : changers distrust the wolf-changers. Dampires Gurahl The Horned Serpent has many servants, many people The who have taken up his ways. The most powerful ofthem are bear-changers were here before us. They are the _ the vampires, those who eat the blood of the living. They re.orned Serpent were eean i i t'hileeewe madewyour thelong —_—refuseDead, andto walktheythe havePathlearnedof Soulshoworto gopretendto the toLandlive. of the ey here. We have al onored them. But many. of Their words can trick us and make us believe things them died before we co and many more diedat that are not true. Kill them on sight. Pierce their hearts the hands of the wolf-c m across the seas. with wooden arrows and slice their heads off with hatchets. changers that we know of may call upon us at anytime, and —_ sometimes scare vampires away by chanting sacred songs. yy We protect the Gura do our own. Those bear- = They are unholy and fear sacred things. Our Kin can ! 44 Wendigo RE TEDinitia </ 4 

**

> (2 <.., [S18 )eee ; a , a P oO my RN tS Pwr © aA?) 4 ‘Na | VW Wo eo (es Pe eg / / ; j 7 &) o,a f \ ve : \ A 2 | oe itt ff y i ne «ep | 7 

**

## riod eaKness (Opti 1) 

The first of the Werewolf Tribebooks introduced an opThe Wendigo have long lived in a very close relationship tional rule: tribal weaknesses, quirks the members of a particular with the Earth and its ever-changing seasons. The tribe suffers a tribe might possess, usually due to the social, spiritual or even different weakness during different parts of the year, but it gains genetic nature of a tribe. Weaknesses shouldn’t always be enpower in winter, the season of its totem forced: In some rare situations, for instance, a Bone Gnawer Spring: +1 difficulty to Willpower rolls; the Wendigo have might not suffer a higher difficulty on Social rolls. Likewise, Glass trouble concentrating as life quickens and grows. Walkers can’t regain Gnosis in the wilderness, but in some areas Summer: -1 difficulty to frenzy rolls; summer is the tradi with long-ago Weaver residue, such as abandoned homesteads, a itad Ukeel or aaa Shite’ old tabir hand w break Glass Walker might be able to reestablish his spiritual connecFall: +1 difficulty to change forms; the world slips into tions slumber and new potentials die t is up to the7Storytelleri to enforce these ruleseewhen an - 5 Winter: -1 difficulty on soak rolls; the Wendigo are hardiest appropriate situation occurs in the game. A player may be unwill: F in this bitter season, and they save up all their hate to strengthen ing to remind a Storyteller when her Uktena’s curiosity ought to themselves during the harshest time of year. get her into trouble 

Orenda 

47 

**

| 

Croatan Gifts * Hand of the Earth Lords (Level Four) — As the Uktena The Wendigo still retain some lore from the Croatan, Gift. 7 although they keep it secret from other Garou (even the Uktena) ea sar[jr][ es][ ell] era et ache aridl geaicks te Gaby eodeneveing WeadiealsT he Gunneelies sian Gift pursuesa goal, nothing can stop her from achieving her ends. forbid any player character who lacks an excellent reason from Thee erecneny legends of Croatan heroes who followed thelr learning chess Giten at any-xareushayicbune ani Giaw ob axiodier vows of vengeance or spiritual quests against all odds, continuing lA | crib siti eniaee be lenensed ian eeterdetauniiexpelbenie cost on when less-resolute Garou turned back, fearful of failure. This y, © Wyld Sight (Level One) — The Garou can see Wyld Gift is now taught by Wendigo Ancesvorrepirits, on 9 energy in all its manifestations, thus allowing him to prevent it System: The player spends “A from growing too powerful or to defend himself against it. For declares her purpose or quest to alla permanent who —— hear. point Fr **o** fmGnosis that Pareand instance, the Garou can see the mystic swirling of the Umbral on, she must follow her nite through until the end. She adds six | wind that peevegnea teecntoin the phvialcoln heres OO dice to any Willpower roll involving the quest (even if it shaking of the Umbral earth before a real earthquake. A Garou sp her Willpower over 10 dice) snd hes six extra, Willpower using Wyld Sight in the physical world can also sense Wyld spirits pasnks to spend on the quest only. However, once spent, these in the nearby Penumbra, although the user must enterthe Umbra points cansioe be regained. to get more details. This Gift is taught by a Wyld-spirit. If the Garou chooses a give bai her quest before it is Systems ‘The player tolls Perception'+ Enigmas (difficiley completed, she loses any remaining bonus Willpower points and 6). If successful, the Garou understands the nature of the Wyld loses Sa San Willpower point for each of the bonus Use the following table to determine how early a Garou can Garou ai regain permanently lost Willpower points. For | manifestation and realizes what form ofWyld-spirit is causing it. Willpower points that she spent after Son reens this Gift. The oredict a Wyld event: instance, if the Garou gives up her quest after spending three of A | SuccOn **e** sses Tine1G minutes Biloww the Bveat _SwearSekar the quest points,does she not may have never haveto succeed, a Willpowerbut it must Two 30 minutes © 27a definite regOlution for the Garou not to lose permanent Three One hour Mailfpower. Four fe he Five + One da (fe * Turtle Shell (Level Two)== TheG@arou can form 4 protective shield around herself. appears as a any of the deg igo rites vary from region to region, turtle shell iteemcases the Garou. ypaque Og ey are high the traditionsof gati¥€ Kinfolk. For outside but translucémifjam the inside (artae iy a Sweat Lodge aaipface east (a teaching the Garou can see out). Garou can choos Mers it may face a purifying lodge, uniting in the shell with her. This G aught by a TG th the moog details usually are purely System: The player spe Gnosis onsidereg i tO e one's way of doing Stamina + Surviyal(diffigulry 6 sug ter). two soak dicegifd two Healtievels : Health Leys, it ee f In addigion, tw radigs can, Pased nes Crinos-form Cfitgu requires@ibOut fich space, " i successes, three CPinos4form Gar@ilcan fit into Aes : ial perhaps six Homidor Cupus-forgv Garou, or anygich combing is rite"ysually accompapies a Rite of Passage or even tion — Storyteller’s discretion). bstitutes for it among some septs. The Rite of Passage is often The shell lasts for one scene or until a Garou decides to brea! #means whereby a pack’s young cubs learn to aid one another in it, whichever comes first. Once its time is up or it is broken accomplishing each cub's vision. They choose a totem from the (whether by a Garou inside or by an enemy pounding his wayin), Patrons who came to them on their Vision Quest. the shell disinregrates. The Vision Quest is best if it occurs soon after the First * Call Earth Spirit (Level Three) — The Garou may Change (or before it, in the case ofacub known to be a Garou summon an Earth-spirit to do one task for him. The user must — even though she may not know herself). She m5 taken out to I have some earth with him (a handful of dirt ora rock). The Earththe wilderness, to a sacred spot (a cave, a waterfall, a ledge on spiritagainst.System:crushes This GiftThethings is taughtplayerin its by anspendspath, earth elemental.includingone Gnosisfoespointit isanddirectedrolls oftenausuallymountain)eight checkstoand onten). theleft cubthereAfter to makefourfast days surefor havea shenumberremainspassed,of days relativelysomeone(most L Manipulation + Occult (difficulty 8), The spirit’s rampage (in a healthy; if she is not, the quest is canceled but may be straight line for up to 30 yards) causes 10 dice of damage attempted egain later. (nonaggravated) to anything in its path. It knocks down whatIf the quest is successful, a spirit comes to the supplicant in ever it hits, rolling over objects or victims, and continues along dreams and gives her a vision of her destiny, the goal that its way. A botch on the summoning roll calls up a spirit hostile to Grandmother wishes L.C. to achieve. The vision may be vague, ET eee for events to come are not fully “written,” but to deny the vision may mean failure later in life. This spirit sometimes comes again Orenda 49 lll ip eileen ieee: meena, 

to the Garou later and is well-inclined toward her, although it Snow Walk does not have to be chosen as a pack totem. Level F System: This rite isnot one the quester must learn; it isa task ‘ingeuniigs fem I to be completed, successfully or not. Only one Vision Quest may ; ee hes but oe oa nd ee be embarked upon in a person’s lifetime, although that person aplore stiear Lndee. Tha aiplignt pa neeag ili site igpy Hewes nett Reveal ing carey Gian without clothing or tools of any kind, into the frozen tundra of Z i rede a ‘att f-sa9. dais have panes aabdietare We the far north (or into a fierce local snowstorm) and must . a : me ’ survive there forat least three days. The first day may be trying, supplicant may roll Stamina + Rituals (difficulty 7) once per Na on shat the real test begins: If the:rite is day. The successes are tallied together, and when 12 successes cuca Peunmon -hacih:guets ie aan have been achieved, the spirit comes to reveal a vision. Then, piersiagic 5 Gasca: ifahe curtiule LOR RE the quest is over. The Garou does not have to reveal her vision of-tiny Wer pirie cai aad ates eR be teal of to others, but it may help her to get some advice from a ies. Thesis: If ; j : Sys! licant rolls Charisma + Rituals (difficulty the character consumes food anytime during the rite, the 7).1 sveva sericea Sle tariek hiss coll Seansina'+ difficulty of successive rolls increases by three. Su Pees ts quires socire Witni-taintotepirit mMoon 4d)ance ‘our are needed to banish Harano. If the roll fails, the Level is reduced to Crippled and must heal as if she had taken 4 Four vasée wounds. In addition, she must roll against the Battle This rite seeks prophetic wisdom from the Moon, ar @hart. concerning adventures or war parties. Rite participants T in the Umbra and proceed along a Moon Path (rando or by the ritemaster). If the Moon favors their dance, a L if and gifts the party with visions of the coming future, th ings with regard to the object of their quest or war party: tice a iabaris by whith the Gatun becotice Lniownlto see Pentex executives leaving their office at night, friend. | Kectdiad f “ monkeywrenchers may have an easier time breaking ‘eee pews. sa on E“lee ne they might see a Wyld-spirit harassing one of the ritu: ; b. mtvg Ay age ‘im eae.pve meaning that such a spirit may trouble them in their coming it itt, eenste Gioksapie Bee ae every iaed hog mi ning for an entire moon cycle, or provide a small Garou who seek potent visions scar themselves with klaives a very meal he consumes during that cycle (by to show their devotion to the Moon and their willingness for 4, y or leaving it in a place that animal spirits y, sacrifice. freq The System: The ritemaster rolls Wits + Ity 7). ter a complete moon cycle (from new to full) number of successes determines both visions ofids ce, ‘the character rolls Charisma + Rituals (clues) given and their degree of import (S retion). (diffi ch success adds one success to the roll used to The difficulty of the roll drops by one who cuts da moned spirit’s demeanor (from hostile to herself with silver (-3 maximum). dition, these successes should be tallied and Accord bonusa similar applies manner only to to therolls next madespirit when encountered, meeting Sweat Lodge ithhe each Storyteller new encounter, may insteadif the characterallow it to carries steadily herself deLevel One gatherpertainsAin toversiona one’ssealedof owntentthe or selfRite lodge andof and health.Cleansing, pour The water ritethis on participants heatedrite s rocks alt y Oyarans (Cotems) create hot steam. Sage and cedar are sometimes burned to h f W cleanse the atmosphere. otems 0 ar ing thingsTrickyfrom spiritsa person’s sometimeshand interruptor even ceremonies,disrobing a participoften y uk, the Hunter Ritualists should greet these visitations with patience. If Background Cost: 4 behaves properly, he may be rewarded with some tidbit ofknowl Traits: lgaluk gives his children skills in the hunt. One pack System: In addition to the usual roll made by the ritem: r at a time may increase his Perception by one, and that (Charisma + Rituals, difficulty 7), each participant mak member may also subtract one from the difficulties of Willpower roll. If the roll is successful, all Stamina rolls are ealth and Survival rolls. ‘ made at one less difficulty for the next two days. In addition, Ban: Children of Igaluk must never mistreat their game; characters are considered cleansed, as if they had participated they must always thank any being they kill for food. Otherwise, yy in a Rite of Cleansing. Igaluk ensures that all animals beware the offending Garou. 50 Wendigo / iinseni 

. . e WakinyanBackground Tanka,Cost: 6 Thunderbird SetisheS | | Traits: A member ofThunderbird’s pack may add three dice Ghost Canoe toa Strength dice pool. Also, Thunderbird teaches his children Level 3 (5), Gnosis 8 Fe the Gift: Clap of Thunder (as the Level Two Shadow Lord Gift). This canoe is not necessarily a full-sized one; it is usually a Ban: Thunderbird is a dangerous totem to court. Ifa pack small carving of such a boat. Once activated, it allows its bearer vA | member's Rage ever exceeds her Willpower, she goesa little crazy. to navigate the Umbra as if he had the spirit Charm: Airt Sense. it “A She behaves strangely and stays on edge (like someone who has There are full-sized versions of this fetish (Level 5) that can carry ¥ had way too much coffee); all her frenzy roll difficulties are at -2. a number of Garou and can pass through the Umbral landscape as Ch Wi . if it were water. Once activated, one of these potent fetishes e inter Manitous enters the Umbra when its user steps sideways. Activation lasts (Negakfok,Background Comanik,Cost: 4 " O'ha,a foritfetish, out oftheone day; if Umbra. it wears Any off, the spirit fetish with must Airt be Sense canactivated again power to this get Early Frost.Traits:InA addition,pack member the manitousmay call grantupon theirthe childGift! Ghillare Net/Spiritoe Snare R both Stamina and Survival. | a Level 3, Gnosis 5 Ban: Pack members may not seek shelter fem ayy ish, comes in. two different forms, a fishnet or a storm until they have suffered at leastone Health Levelordamace 5 sme er, it is Mor used to catch animals — it from the cold (frostbiteji hessspirt Garou sets the trap as he normally would, Cotems — must se Re Umbra and then)activate it. Spirits ; ahr. against the snare is) if theiSinare has moresuccess¢ abl Sk of I S dom ‘oO wander ovi roll thet ¥ ill wer in a contest ala, SHUT spirit is trapped. atleast three hours have passed after Background Cost: 5 setting it, ar ay cheek the trap to see if he has any "a eettgs Baal packimembergainewhe Lietitge Gites Spirit CaP tives. 5 fetish to gapture spirits and exact Speech and the Gift: SA Het d Sele ae les? favors for ing them (alternately, they place the spirits in difficultiesBan: onPacksEnigmasmust wollsaredo/Gheit béstat x6-[ protect éand b oe fetishes).within it[a][Spy] Talereate stich a snare, the™ endigo must bind spirits. They must never refise a call for: om a alan sp = aedawaewae-Jgun) Kiunik, Otter ais 7 Background Cost:5 ff is fetish is a shaman’s drum, one which can aid in Fesites Thank wav ch Be nthe Theur Sallie: Pulse Sam summoning spirits. When played for at least three consecutive Invisible Bas4ae ‘es a y & eS Dex turns and properly activated, it adds the number of successes on ‘ath:wie aici the y (oe =a Hee asl eee activation roll to one subsequent summoning rite or Gift. Ban: Pack members ice enter the Umbra at least of i eee iereate ty Hinting Gong sptcit. moon cycle (from new to full) and follow a random Moo ive Bow while there. Whi:skey ]ack, yayb,Ir. 2 eectMuchevel like4, Gas theGnosis bow ofthe legendary Gluskap, this warrior's Background Cost: 4 weapon is sought after by many Ahrouns. It is a very strong bow Traits: A pack member may call upon the Gift: Blissful made of stone, impossible to draw until ithas been activated, after Ignorance, and she gains +1 Charisma. In addition, the difficulWhich it may be used only by the activator for the next scene. Its ties for all rolls to fool another with words are reduced by one. 240-yard range is twice that of a normal bow and, like a firearm, Ban: Each pack member must steal something once per the user can add his attack successes to the damage dice pool — moon cycle, whether it’s a pack of gum at the store or a Horned in addition to the normal 6 dice of damage the bow delivers (plus Seren . Dorson'e fetish. any extra for special arrowheads). who died long ago and whose remains‘can sometimes be found Peyote It is said that these bows are made from the bones of giants ? A Pre ; buried in mountains or caves (usually in the Umbra). War-spirits Details on this powerful spirit can be found in the Werewolf iusndi within Gouerihew feaukes supplement Axis Mundi: The Book of Spirits. Salama ima ia Orenda 51 : Ee Se a, 

**

While members of the Wendigo tribe may be more another's particular traditions — far more so than he is toward culturally united than most other tribes, they are certainly not ones of most other Garou tribes. uniform in their practices. A homid is usually born to Natives Now more than ever do these various traditions come on a reservation, and even if she is raised in ignorance,6f her together, whereas before they were widely removed from people's past traditions, she learns them after her kalukarluteng —_one another The Wendigo have recently returned to the — the Rite of Passage. Such individual traditions as ceremoancient fostering practice once shared among all the Pure nies, dress, behavior and even languages can vary greatly. Lands tribes: Cubs from one sept often go to a faraway sept | lowever, Wendigo all share the same overall tribal culture for tutoring and to earn their first Renown. In this way, For the most part, one Wendigo tends to be quite respectfulof Lands strengthen. given them by the manitous —the Ways detailed in this book. kinship ties among all the original peoples of the Pure 

Needjee 

53 

ee 

YA 

## Contrary 

**

a WNenDico ay Name: Breed: Homid Pack Name: & Player: Auspice: Ragabash Pack Totem: A Chronicle: Camp: Concept: @ontrary 

Strength Physical @@000)=3 Charisma Social @@000 ‘PerceptionMental @@e@00 Dexterity @ee0ee0 3 Manipulation @ee@00 Intelligence @e@e00 Stamina @@000 == Appearance e@000§3s« Wits @e00e0 Alertness Talents @0000_ = Animal KenSkills OOOO0O ComputerKnowledgesOOOO0O Athletics @0000 __—ODrive @@000 Enigmas 00000 Brawl @00oo0 — Etiquette @0000 Investigation @0000 Dodge @@0@00 Firearms @0000_ Law @@000 Empathy 00000 Leadership OOOOO Linguistics @0000 Expression OO000~ Melee 00000 Medicine @0000 Intimidation 00000 Performance OO0000 3 Occult 00000 Primal-Urge @0000 Repair @0000 Politics OOO0O Streetwise ee30ee0 = Stealth ee@e0o 3=—sORituals OOO0O Subterfuge @@e@00 = Survival @0000 = Science ; 00000 Backgrounds Gifts Gifts Kinfolkss @@@O0O §=—Gmelb of han C00 Waders BGO00 Gelyet te _* 00000 Totem @0000 Camouflage OOO00O CI rlfeOOOO teat MeO sare A esns SB OOOOD ———~ Renown-———-—§s ———- Rage-——————»§ ———— Health =~ @eeoooooo0ododoaoGlory e@eo00000000 eeurt - : doooGgdadOD SSeS ee regu deo Honor ———~ Gnosis-———<—— Wounded -2 QO ®000000000 egee0000000 ae “2 ogo000000000 Sr A fe Wisdom OQOOOOOUOOOOO Incapacitated Qj 0000000000 ——Willpower-—— ——-Weakness-———— yy ies Gag cta la WEAKNESS VARIES f QOOOOO0O0O000 BY SEASON a ee 

**

56 

Name: Breed: Metis Pack Name: b Player: Auspice: Thearge Pack Totem: VA Chronicle: Camp: Concept: Wounded Prophet Strength Physical Social Mental Dexterity @00@@ **0** 0-~00 = CharismaManipulation **@** @@e@0e@@0 **0** = s~PerceptionIntelligence **@** ee@0@00 **0** Stamina_________@@@OO Appearance_____@@000 Wits @ee00 Alertness Calents Skills Knowledges Athletics @0000- = Animal Ken @0000 Computer OOOO0O Brawl **00000** | EtDr **i** quetteve @e0@0000000__ EI **n** vestigationigmas @eee0OOOO0O Dodge OOOOO Firearms 00000 — Law OQOO00O Empathy @@000 Leadership 00000 Linguistics @0000 Expression @@@00 Melee 00000. Medicine @e@000 Intimidation 00000 Performance ee@000 )3 Occult @@e@00 Primal-Urge @e@0@00 = Repair 00000 Politics @0000 Streetwise OOO0OO _ Stealth 00000 Rituals @@000 Subterfuge 00000 Survival @0000 = Science : OOO00O0 Past LifeBackgrounds@@000 Gense WyrmGifts Gifts Rites TY 1 Je) G pirit Speech OO0000 Call the Breeze ——Eo66 5eSa ee EO a i a ec Ny ———~ Renown-———)sGlory ————-Rage -———— —)§-———Health-—_<— oO0O0o0 0O0O 000 0 @@e00000000 ayeurt - : Hoaboeoooes ~~ =Se ae ined! = hy) 10 Honor —-—-~ Gn0sis-———<— Wounded -2 Q 0000000000 eeeee00000 Maxted Ee g000000000 a OQOOOOOOOOO Incapacitated 0 Wisden a eS ©@00000000 ——Willpower-——— ———-Weakness—<—~ “iy ONOOOOOOOOOye ile eeueuovuse000n0 WHEELWEAKNESSOF SEASONS: VARIES OOOOOOOOO00 BY SEASON 

‘alt > er 

## iia 

## Federal Marshal 

Quote: Are you going to come with me willingly or am I going to have to break some teeth? And don’t even think about shooting that gun — it might make me angry... 

Prelude: Your mother was Native American and your father Asian-American. For years, you had no idea what that made you. Your mother was ashamed of her heritage (like a lot of Indians ofher generation), and your father was gung-ho American VA Dream, intent on leaving his Vietnamese past far behind him. They were both achievers, however, and built you a good home with strong prospects. aPa) Be RisSeig wrong.Maybe law Thestatusandenforcementit climate of wasyourgenuine the lack—politicalthat of ability **an** correctness,yd roa g odcatapulted **o** ts thatsenseof your drew you you minorityright through and to —~SS ? we the ranks, even though it seemed that a lot of your a ca | KY But on all those questionnaires throughout your career, wes \NXea we Pin cases involved photo ops with high officials. ) i! P you checked the “Asian-American” box rather than “Na. Biel / x | i/ / tive American,” which is why they eventually assigned “Se A. i ae a you to some rather nasty cases in “Indian Country,” as SS \ ; p ) } the old-timers called it. If they knew you were Native, “oe 2 fiA / you would have been assigned elsewhere — here they ) \ NS a eo,Ya \ wanbu **t** edwhoanother wasn’tminority, Native, someoneeither. who wasn't white \ < G VeS iat, During your first case, which involved some \ . {9 “skinchanger” murders, as the locals called them, ‘e -- Fs), you underwent a belated First Change and \ \\— 9 entered a world your parents and their parents \¥! (G ; is ae - before them had long ago refused — the NAY tS at ee | Cal P) K world of the Garou and the war against the 2¢-4 f You now realize that everything yy & SY / >= ~ you once knew is wrong. You're a >) q \ “ae Me Wendigo, butone witha good job in \‘ A. Sk * : \<a 3 the wasichu world,ajob youintend \ \ \ A io we to use to battle the Wyrm in a } ae ) way no one else among your y| )} a\ \. WY FBIingpeopledivisiona transfercan.euphemistically In fact,to some you're seek-obscure called ee Ip Project Twilight.... NS SS theConcept:federal government, You're a Wendigofully licensed agent into N carry a gun and serve warrants on ofa < fenders — especially Wyrm servitors. ( \\ e Roleplaying Hints: Your train\ 4 ing has taught you a no-noniP. we ee sense,You still professional act the part, demeanor.but your \ : rediscovered heritage exL a C cites you to no end. t \ Keeping it a secret 4 : \ from your coworkers =~ < is going to be tough. automatic pistol, marshal’s badge. iy Equipment: Bulletproof vest, 58 Wendigo iinSe 

| 

. 

| 

L 

Name: Player: Chronicle: 

Breed: }4omid Pack Name: » Auspice: Phitodov Pack Totem: y Camp: Concept: Federal Marshal 

Strength Physical Social Mental Dexterity @@000 = Charisma @@000 ‘Perception @e00e0 Stamina @@@00@@@00 = Appearance3=Manipulation ee00co@@000 3 3—s«WitsIntelligence e@e@e00@ee@00 Alertness Talents Skills Knowledges Athletics @@000_~= = Animal Ken @@000 Computer @0000 Brawl @@000OoOOoOoO | EtDr **i** quetteve **00000** _ EI **n** vestigationigmas @eeeOOO00 **0** DodgeEmpathy @0000 ‘Firearms @e0@00 = Law @ee00 Expression @00OOO **0** 0O LM **e** adershiplee @0 **0000** LinguisticsMedicine **@** @0 **000** Intimidation @0000 Performance 00000 Occult 00000 Primal-Urge Oooo000 ~—siRepair @0000 Politics @e@000 Streetwise @@@00 = Stealth @e@000 Rituals OOO0O0O Subterfuge @0000 Survival OOOOO _ Science @0000 A ttiesBackgrounds@e0@00 = Lersuasion Gifts Gitts Past Life @0000 = Truth of Gaia 2.een, a| es en 8 EE See[re] peermeens. 0 (0(0 09 OyNEEON —E———E—————EEee Glory @©@0e@20@000000 — Bnised a 0000000000 Hurt -| L) noOoOoonBOOO FESR ORSR . ined 1 O ®©@®0@20000000Honor ——~en00000000Gnosis-———_—<—— Woundedhe aE **-** 2 QO npoO00000000 aS. SS Wisdom NQOO0O000000 Incapacitated O 0000000000 ——Willpower——— ———-Weakness-—<— “iy “eRRank WEAKNESS VARIES { nee AN OQOOOOO0000 BY SEASON 

**

Powwow (Cancer and others. As much as you like to hunt the Horned Serpent People with your pack, you hate it when it draws Quote: Ha’eye’ya he’yeye’! Ha’eye'ya he’yeye’! you away from the powwow circuit. Therefore, your pack Prelude: You were born ofthe wolf-people, a lupus. decided to travel the circuit with you to aid Natives broughtAfter youryouFirstto a Change,Native reservationthe Wendigonear wolf-changersa caern. Your againstConcept:the WyrmYou're wherevera wolfin youloveall withgo. sacred, ceremo4 “Ae thefirst glimpsehuman oftribes. humansThere, was atin aa powwow,converteda **g** atheringymnasium, of ___ nr **i** tualal dance.dances. AncientYou have storieswon comemany topr l **i** fz **e** whens, but youcare enactlittle they danced, dressed in colors and feathers, and chanted for them — it is the actual dancing you enjoy. their thanks. You wanted more than anything to be like Roleplaying Hints: You're not very talkative — you them,to dance forGrandmother and chant songstoHer. are a lupus, after all. You communicate best through While you learned the ways of the wolf-changers, gesture. You have recently tried incorporating your you also studied the ways of the humans who lived : dancing into combat. Doing so has imnearby. Although they thought you a bit odd proved your ability to avoid enemy (they called you “slow”), some of them adopted blows, and even to confuse enemies you and taught you their dances. Eventuat times. ally, they let you dance with them in a Equipment:The only thing costume of your own. Your agility amazed ~ > you own is your dancing outthem all, as did the passion with which LaSSG fit: a colorful shirt, loincloth you sang and twirled. You quickly \ and leggings, all adorned became a favorite. ; with ribbons and feathers. You now know many dances: Ly ~ ~~) You also have the hoop dance, the deer dance \ — an eagie7 \ and some MI \ ~» Ny)s “7, S feather fan Lis N N \ \ Sy’ / 2 hoops. A . | ' > \ SS / 1 UM" LA N SS j J SATIN r y’ / iy; - 1 Saae> XNi iit'. ) Sli |; {e ‘\ : N 7 } Y) Wy \ ND MW i Lye4 , OAL 60 v p> ena. . 

> Wennico ey MW Name: Breed: Lupus Pack Name: % Player: Auspice: Gattiard Pack Totem: A Chronicle: Camp: Concept: Povyryory Dancer 

Strength Physical Social Mental Dexterity ee0o0o0o§3o@@@00 3 CharismaManipulation e@e@e **@** e@0000 3s Perception‘Intelligence **@@000** Stamina_________@@@O00 Appearance____ @eeeo = Wits @@000 Alertness Talents Skills Knowledges Athletics @0000 = Animal Ken @@000 Computer OO000 Brawl @e@e@e@00 3 —dCDrive 00000 _ Enigmas @0000 Dodge @0000e@e@e@00 3s Et(F **i** rearmsquette O0 **0** OOOO000 InvestigationLaw @0000OOOO0O Empathy OOOOO Leadership 00000 Linguistics @0000 Expression. @@@00 Melee 00000 Medicine @0000 Intimidation OOOOO Performance ee@e@00)3 Occult @e@000 Primal-Urge @@000_~ Repair 00000 Politics 00000 Streetwise OOOOO - Stealth @e@000 Rituals @@000 Subterfuge OOOO0O Survival @@000 = Science 00000 Backgrounds Gifts Gifts FetishAllies == @00000000 §=_LeapofCall the theWyld Kangaroo Pure Breed @@000 Catl of the Breeze Lotem @0000 = _faAtance SI a 

——-~ RenownGlory —s ———- Rage-———— 9s ———Health=< @®@eaoooood0odd0dod0 e@eeeo00000d0 iyurt - , = BOeepoOoOOD See eer igjedt® -1 Oo Honor —-—~~ Gnosis—_——_—— Wounded -2 QO 000000:0000 g@e6o010060, _Maled z 4 Qo0000000Q00 a J Wistow QOOOUOOOOOO Incapacitated Q ®©000000000 ——-Willpower-——— ———-Weakness-—<— -—_ NOOOOODOOOO eeeeoo0000 WHEELOF SEASONS: PN ae NQOOOOOOOO0O BY SEASON f eel WEAKNESS VARIES 

**

a fA eee 

| 

Taken*Brom-Fixe had returteditohis sept and told his people aboutthe Strange Iddgefhe had visited and what he had heard tReze “Evetyarie was glad of it, fom it was a sign that the spirits Were still strong and spilDy favored them. | That night, as Taken2Ftom-Fire slept wider phe stars by the glowinggtre, @capl bréegeeame from the southfand blew upOn his fate, irito his earseb¥e dreamed of Phechenoeswof"his Pibe: thdf nightstandNe-o-ga $poketohinuagain, te **l** ing him 

64 

Wendigo ) a anima 

**

**

**

**

**

**

! 68 

——" Wennico Ay Name: Breed: Pack Name: b Player: Auspice: Pack Totem: A Chronicle: Camp: Concept: 

Strength Physical @0000-~ Charisma Social @0000 _s~éPerception.Mental @0000 Dexterity @0000 Manipulation @0000 Intelligence @0000 Stamina @0000- = Appearance @e00ocoo 3s Wits @0000 Alertness Talents 00000 Animal KenSkills OOO000 ComputerKnowledgesOO0000 Athletics 00000 Drive 00000 — Enigmas 00000 Brawl OOOOO _ Etiquette OOOOO Investigation 00000 Dodge OOO0O = Firearms____-= Empathy OOOOO Leadership ~~ 9000 **000** Law________Linguistics **00000** Expression 00000 Melee 00000 _ Medicine 00000 Intimidation 00000 Performance O0000 = Occult OO0000 Primal-Urge OOOOO - Repair Oo0ooO0 Politics OOO00O0 Streetwise OOO0O0O0 - Stealth ooooo Rituals OO0000 Subterfuge 00000 Survival OOO0O0O0 _ Science _ 00000 

Backgrounds Gifts Gifts otEE)0 oo OeSe ee ee ee eee eee a neers9 213 (oeEEEEE ———— OCC ——_—_————————————a ee A ee 0,015)21S i[a] ee a ee ee ERO OOO Oma £514 8 ee ee ee eee ———~ Renown-——$->Glory ss———-0000000000Rage-———— —§s ————Bruised Health -—_=—4 0O0O00 00 0000 Hurt -] LJ pOUQOUbOO Honor OD. Fo——-~ Gnosis—_————Wouninwe **d** ed **-** 12 = O0OD0D0DD0D0ODDOO Mauled -2 Oo Qgo00000000 QgQQ0 0000000 rippled 2. Wisdom QOOOOOOOOO Incapacitated Oo 0000000000 ——Willpower——— ——--Weakness—<—~ yy es eae WEAKNESS VARIES f NQOOOOOO000 BY SEASON zy 

tc Wenn GO —~£3}—<~t» HOMD we Strength(+2)__—smem Glabrae mmSt Cri+Ste meenStrength(+3)_Hisponess Strengthmmm Lp (+1)smash |\A % No Stamina (+2) Dexterity (+2) Dexterity (+2) Change Appeasaiiee-1)___ Stamina(+3)_—s Stamina (+2) - stipulation) M Manipulation (3)__ 

wna Other CraitsmamBledme \ wera (fk Fetishes waacenawan oases nt ee IC OOOD Item: QODedicated Level__—- Gnosis____ ee a 18 1818) e Powerin*errreee eg ———— ee O85 G56) Item: DiDedicated Levels Gnosis____ pee eh EEOC OG Powessaiie tierce ai i | Bee pies OOOO Item: QiDedicated Level___- Gnosis____ NN I a OOOOS Power: ee OOOO ee EW OO000 eeees OO OOG 5 ee 00000 ‘\ k SSen 00000 pa ee ee et) ne, en SS 100008 SSSegee al a er OOOO a a oe eS OOOO a) ee eee eee 

[Maneuver/Weapon | _Roll__| Difficulty] Damage [Range| Rate | Clip |{ 

Brawling Chart 

Pesa BiteeeDex+Brawl 5 Strength+1+ Grapple Dex+Brawl 6 Strength Pea EO eee: rou These maneuvers do aggravated damage. GUNA RRERAT CHM EE Th so. La \ f Monsees ee OE a a aa 

| 

— Wena GO <3 Demeanor: 4 Type Cost Flaw Type Bonus 

Nature: 

Merit 

ermeremenExpanded Backgroundctr | Allies Pack Totem 

Kinfolk 

Past Life 

: 

Mentor 

Pure Breed 

POSSESSIONSGear(Carried); —C~—“;‘rTOTmere Lomtennr —Serre ALLL: EX PCLIC NCE mmernmnreeLomtner —GainedFrom: L Equipment (Owned): 7s —— Eee 

Name: ee i SSS eee : WeemLocation. = CCé«PQAL SPENT: | Revers Types Sperit Omget2 | ee Se ea Ee ea RRM es = —— ey - —_——_— ees, 

d 

| ; 

## Cc Wenoico = 

Prelude 

y 

Eyes: **E** EE — EE Race: a ee Se ee ae Nationality; Sex: See ee 

Height | Weight 

Homid: esse Glabro: Battle Scars: Crinos: ee 

Lupus: Metis Deformity: 

Pack Chart Character Sketch 

1 

= 

**

